# Unsupervised Learning for Productivity Garment Employees

The apparel industry has become one of the most profitable economic activities in the world. In its beginnings and until the end of the 1970s, European and North American companies engaged in the apparel business produced clothing in these countries. In these production units, all the steps for the manufacture of their clothes are carried out, from the cutting of the fabric to the finishing. In order to carry out the production, many workers were hired, and the company itself was responsible for their wages, social security and working conditions. Regardless of the globalization of the market and the international demand that the industry has created, today the industry relies on human capital, on employees, to ensure effectiveness and efficiency of the products and to achieve the goals of the industry. Due to the dependence of labor on manpower, the production of a garment company depends depends on the productivity of employees working in different departments of the company. When employees do not meet the goals set by the company's management, some of the links in the production chain fail, negatively impacting the quality and efficiency of the company. Analyzing data from a major garment company in Bangladesh, we created a predictive model for employee productivity in terms of various variables involved in the employee labor process. Data mining has been used for data manipulation and cleaning, while Random Forest, Gradient Boosting and Extreme Gradient Boosting has been used for prediction as predictability estimates. The Extreme Gradient Boosting model proves to be the most efficient in predicting employee productivity with a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.0200, a mean square error (MSE) of 0.0038, a mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) of 3.0764 and a correlation coefficient of 0.94 between original and predicted data. These estimators are much lower than other models previously built in the literature in the field. The model constructed remains an important tool for decision makers to evaluate the actions to be taken by the company in terms of profit maximization when certain variables are known to have a certain performance.

## Data declaration:
For the following work we have used the dataset called garments worker productivity, which has been originally constructed from a survey conducted by the engineering department of a major garment company in Bangladesh. Principal reference for this dataset can be found in [1, 2] and also is available from UCI Machine Learning (Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems) repository at: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Productivity+Prediction+of+Garment+Employees. This dataset includes important attributes of garment manufacturing process and employee productivity, which have been collected manually and validated by the industry experts.

1. Abdullah Al Imran, Md Shamsur Rahim, and Tanvir Ahmed. Mining the productivity data of the garment industry. International Journal of Business Intelligence and Data Mining, 19(3):319–342, 2021.
2. Abdullah Al Imran, Md Nur Amin, Md Rifatul Islam Rifat, and Shamprikta Mehreen. Deep neural network approach for predicting the productivity of garment employees. In 2019 6th International Conference on Control, Decision and Information Technologies (CoDIT), pages 1402–1407. IEEE, 2019. http://doir.org/
10.1109/CoDIT.2019.8820486.

## Support on this repository:
Unsupervised Learning and Data Mining Approach for Predicting the Productivity of Garment Employees
D. Sierra-Porta(a,b,*)
(a) Facultad de Ciencias Básicas. Universidad Tecnológica de Bolivar, Parque Industrial y Tecnológico Carlos Vélez Pombo Km 1 Vía Turbaco, Cartagena de Indias, 130010, Colombia.
(b) D. Sierra-Porta (orcid=0000-0003-3461-1347)
(*) Corresponding author: dporta@utb.edu.co

This work is under consideration in journal.
